Points2Grid software (Version 1.0.2 release)

Proven through thousands of jobs run via the OpenTopography Facility
(http://www.opentopography.org), Points2Grid is a robust and scalable tool
for gridding LIDAR point cloud data to generate Digital Elevation Models
(DEM). Points2Grid uses a local gridding method to compute grid cell
elevation using a neighborhood defined around each cell based on a search
radius provided by the user. The local gridding approach employed by
Points2Grid is most effective in situations where LIDAR shot densities
exceed the resolution of the grid to be produced from these data.

Version 1.0.2 of Points2Grid is a minor release, adding several small
features to the prior 1.0.1 release. These include:

* A compile-time option to align grids to the origin (0,0): Grids can now
be aligned to origin, or to the lower-left corner of the dataset as in
previous releases.

* A compile-time option to set an upper-bound on grid size: Out-of-core
operations have the possibility of exhausting all available disk space
and crashing, with sufficiently high resolutions and large datasets. A
suitable upper-limit on the number of grid points allowed in output can
provide protection from this. With this option enabled, when the
calculated grid size exceeds the pre-determined limit, Points2Grid will
abort.

* Support for libLAS 1.7+: Support for libLAS 1.7+, using the libLAS C
API, has been back-ported from the CRREL fork of Points2Grid. Support for
libLAS 1.2.1 and earlier through the native C++ API continues to be
available as a compile-time option.

Please direct all feedback to info@opentopography.org 


Features in the previous version 1.0 of Points2Grid:

* Input point clouds in ASCII and LAS formats
* Outputs in Arc ASCII and GRD ASCII formats
* DEM products including min, max, mean, and idw values
* Point count values for every grid cell
* Configurable search radius and grid resolution
* Null filling, using a configurable moving window, to fill cells that have
  null values
